Swadishthan Chakra.
The quality of this Chakra is that you become creative.
Your creativity increases.
People who never even wrote a line, start writing poetry.
People who had never given a speech
started giving  long speeches
and people who had never painted,
never been artistic, become artistic.
Become very creative.
We have our architects, who  have scaled great heights.
So creativity comes into human,
and he believes that his creativeness is very important.
He does not care about money,
he cares about being creative and
neither do many people want to get a big name,
Today  many weird things are made
so that we become famous, people will remember us a lot,
but there is no art in that.
Make some big, elaborate thing and make chariots.
So you receive great degree of art (creativity)
when this second Chakra of yours,
the Swadishthan Chakra becomes alright.
And because of this, because of Swadishthan,
what we think,
we use the power of the the grey cells in our brain.
So this Chakra supplies that required power.
This Chakra.
So, people who think too much get all kinds of illnesses,
which we call the right sided illnesses.
One of the illness is that the liver is spoilt
and another is that he gets diabetes in his Pancreas.
If not that then he could get kidney trouble,
if not that then he could get constipation,
if not that then he could get Asthma,
if not that then he could get a Heart Attack
and he could also get Paralysis.
So all right sided illnesses come from the Swadishthan Chakra
and also the left sided illnesses come from this Chakra.
So it is very important that we maintain the Swadishthan Chakra in good condition.
Now how the Kundalini takes care of the Swadishthan Chakra
and gives it…..
that when you awaken the Kundalini of somebody
and his Swadishthan Chakra is caught then in the back,
where the Swadishthan Chakra is there,
you will think there is heart over there.
When there is fast throbbing,
you know that this man’s Swadishthan Chakra is caught.
When is right Swadishthan is cleared,
then his attention become pure
and all the stress etc. which is within him nowadays is finished
and he becomes settled in peace.
Nowadays it is very important that
we keep our Swadishthan Chakra in good condition
as we are burdened
with innumerable workloads nowadays.
By keeping the Swadishthan Chakra clear,
however much the human is troubled
or he has nay problems , he sees them in a peaceful
and detached way
and he understands what has gone wrong.
Means that his Swadishthan Chakra gets so much spoilt nowadays
and so many illnesses are caused.
Everything is there, but there is
some specialty of the Swadishthan Chakra that it is so bad in this Modern age.
Then there are also those other diseases,
I don’t want to go into their details but will say this that
other than diseases, human being become very dissatisfied
and becomes very angry.
Becomes right sided.
In little little thing he is short-tempered,
he feels that I am a man of my such a position
but no one respects me.
A nobody also believes that he is important person.
This happens due to the right side Swadishthan
and when the left side Swadishthan gets caught
then the Person becomes very worried and sad.
He becomes depressed and he thinks
that there is nobody worse than me.
Everybody is troubling me. I have problems.
All kinds of Philological cases happen.
So these two sides of the Chakra, the left and right,
should be taken great care of
and this is very useful thing in Sahaja Yoga
because both these chakras become cleared.
When they are clear then you
understand everything as if you are watching
yourself from the outside.
Oh….so now you are getting angry….,
take a seat, you laugh at yourself.
Make fun of yourself.
You think about yourself …..
Yes what I do…. what I am doing….
so in this way human put his attention in that place
and your attention becomes enlightened
and it corrects the attention.
Sahaja Yoga is very important  for the Swadishthan Chakra
and nowadays all the problems are due to
the Swadishthan, this I ……..